DOCS-8198-CONN-scripting-module-kt (#812)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: scripting/2.0/modules/ROOT/pages/scripting-module-studio.adoc

* `Scheduler`, which initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure `HTTP Listener`, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP* > *Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of `HTTP Listener` in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify TLS information.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specific server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add Execute Operation to the Flow

When you add a module operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that module to perform.

To add the Execute operation for Scripting Module, follow these steps:

> . In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Scripting Module* and then select the desired operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Scripting Module* and then select the Execute operation.
```

. Drag the *Execute* operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.
. Click the *Execute* operation to open the Execute configuration tab.

> . Install and configure a `jsr-223` compliant engine. There are two options: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use one of the following two options to install and configure a `jsr-223` compliant engine: +
```

* In the *Required Libraries* section, click *Configure...* and select one of the following options to search and install the engine: +

** Add recommended libraries +

> Install Groovy engine as recommended. This option only appears if you previously did not install Groovy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install Groovy engine as recommended. This option only appears if you did not previously install Groovy.
```

** Use local file +
Browse a local file for the required engine library and install it.
** Add Maven dependency +
Browse the engine dependency and install it. +

> * In the `pom.xml` file, manually add the engine both in the:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the `pom.xml` file, manually add the engine in both of these sections:
```

> ** `<sharedLibraries>` tags under the `<configuration>` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `<sharedLibraries>` tags under the `<configuration>` section
```

> ** `<dependency>` tags under the `<dependencies>` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `<dependency>` tags under the `<dependencies>` section
```

[start=5]

> . In the *General* section of the *Execute* tab, press the refresh button to update the engine values list for the operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *General* section of the *Execute* tab, click the refresh button to update the engine values list for the operation.
```

In Studio, configuring Jython engine looks as follows:

.Installing engine using Configure button
image::scripting-configure-button.png[Installing engine using Configure button]

In the `pom.xml` file, manually adding Jython engine looks as follows:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<build>
		<plugins>
			<plugin>
				<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
				<artifactId>maven-clean-plugin</artifactId>
				<version>3.0.0</version>
			</plugin>
			<plugin>
				<groupId>org.mule.tools.maven</groupId>
				<artifactId>mule-maven-plugin</artifactId>
				<version>${mule.maven.plugin.version}</version>
				<extensions>true</extensions>
				<configuration>
				<sharedLibraries>
                        <sharedLibrary>
                            <groupId>org.python</groupId>
                            <artifactId>jython-standalone</artifactId>
                        </sharedLibrary>
        </sharedLibraries>
                </configuration>
			</plugin>
		</plugins>
	</build>

<dependencies>
  <dependency>
              <groupId>org.python</groupId>
              <artifactId>jython-standalone</artifactId>
              <version>2.7.2</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>

> ----

Reviewer 2: Please, indent it correctly

In Studio, the Scripting Module configuration with script code looks as follows:

.Scripting Module configuration with script code
image::scripting-studio-flow.png[Scripting Module configuration with script code]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the XML looks as follows:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<scripting:execute engine="python" doc:name="Script">
    <scripting:code>
      def factorial(n):
          if n == 0: return 1
	  return n * factorial(n-1)

      result = factorial(10)
    </scripting:code>
</scripting:execute>
----

In Studio, the loaded script code with a file configuration property looks as follows:

> .Script code with a File Configuration Property

Reviewer 2: Reword or add a comment below to make it more googleable.

"How to use a external file on scripting module" something like that, "File Configuration Property" is something that nobody knows or understand

image::scripting-studio-file-config.png[Script code with a File Configuration Property]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the XML looks similar to the following:

[source,xml,linenums]
----

> <scripting:execute engine="python" doc:name="Script">

Reviewer 2: remove "doc:name" attribute

>     <scripting:code >${file::script.py}</scripting:code>

Reviewer 2: also explain where the "script.py" should be located

</scripting:execute>
----

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure Other Module Fields

> You can configure other additional fields for the Execute operation, such as Parameters, Target Variable and Target Value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure other additional fields for the Execute operation, such as Parameters, Target Variable, and Target Value.
```

=== Parameters

[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Parameters | Map<String, Object> | Variables provided to the script as bindings | |
|===

> In the *Parameters* box of the *General* tab,  define input parameters values for the script to use through DataWeave. For the DataWeave expression to work correctly, you need to combine these parameters types output, where keys are strings and values are any object. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *Parameters* box of the *General* tab, define input parameter values for the script to use through DataWeave. For the DataWeave expression to work correctly, you need to combine these parameters' types output, where keys are strings and values are any object. +
```

> Use the parameters as binding variables by referencing them by their name, for example: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference the parameters by name to use them as binding variables, for example: +
```

`factorial(initialValue + int(payload))`

In Studio, the Parameters configuration looks as follows:

.Script using parameters
image::scripting-studio-parameters.png[Script using parameters]

In the *Configuration XML* editor, the XML looks as follows :

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<scripting:execute engine="python" doc:name="Script">
	<scripting:code >def factorial(n):
	if n == 0: return 1
	return n * factorial(n-1)
result = factorial(initialValue + int(payload))</scripting:code>
	<scripting:parameters ><![CDATA[#[{
        initialValue: 10
    }]]]></scripting:parameters>
</scripting:execute>
----

=== Target Variable and Target Value

[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required

> | Target Variable | String | The name of a variable on which the operation’s output will be placed | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Target Variable | String | The name of a variable on which to place the operation’s output | |
```

> | Target Value | String | An expression that will be evaluated against the operation’s output and the outcome of that expression will be stored in the target variable | #[payload]|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Target Value | String | An expression to evaluate against the operation’s output. The outcome of that expression will be stored in the target variable. | #[payload]|
```
